# Class of GUN
Author: Nimish Joshi 

# Object Topic:  Gun (Revolver)

* Description of the Object:

  (The actual idea of the object came in mind when I visited one shooting range in the last fall vacation.) 
  
  A revolver is a repeating multi-shot firearm that has a revolving cylinder containing multiple chambers and at least one barrel for firing. The term "revolver" refers to a handgun. There are two basic types of revolver pistols: Single action and double action. Single actions derive their name from the fact that they can only be fired by cocking the hammer and squeezing the trigger one shot at a time, whereas the double action can be fired in the same manner as the single action or simply by squeezing the trigger to fire – hence “double action.” Below are the description for the properties of the Revolver (such as Trigger, Hammer & Cylinder) and its behavior (such as Firing, Hammering and Loading the Cylinder).

  One of the main property of a Revolver is its “Trigger”; it is the part of a firearm mechanism that is moved manually to cause the firearm to discharge. A trigger is a mechanism that actuates the firing sequence of a firearm or crossbow; a trigger may also start another mechanism such as a trap or a quick release. A small amount of energy applied to the trigger causes the release of much more energy. Triggers usually consist of levers or buttons actuated by the index finger. Firearms use triggers to initiate the firing of a cartridge in the firing chamber of the weapon. This is accomplished by actuating a striking device through a combination of spring and kinetic energy operating through a firing pin to strike and ignite the primer. While on the other side, talking about Revolver’s behavior, “Firing” is one of the key catalyst of the action. In this process, the trigger (bottom black thing) is attached to the firing pin release (the middle black thing) and the firing pin release is attached to the firing pin assembly (part that's held back with the firing pin release). When you pull the trigger, it lifts the trigger release and it lets go of the compressed spring that gives the firing pin its energy to set off the primer of the cartridge.
https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/14539985/14229932/5cc54cd8-f90a-11e5-9aca-c2fae90d3b3c.png
  Additionally, second key property of the Revolver we can talk about is its “Hammer”; the hammer of a firearm is a part that swings to impart a blow (impact) that will initiate a firing when the trigger is pulled. Its name comes from its resemblance and functional similarity to the common hand tool of the same name. The proximal result of the hammer's blow depends on the mechanism of the lock or action of which it forms a part. For example, in a flintlock, it strikes flint against steel, whereas in a modern lock, it strikes the primer on a cartridge or a firing pin that will strike the primer. The distal result is the same: a firing of the weapon. On the other hand “Hammering” is the behavior of the revolver; when the trigger is pulled it activates the hammering process, the hammer strikes the firing pin which strikes the cartridge and fires the handgun.  There are two basic actions: Single and double. In single action only one action occurs when the trigger is pulled, the hammer falls to strike the firing pin. Therefore you must pull back the hammer each time you wish to shoot the handgun (common in old style cowboy handguns). In double action two actions occur when the trigger is pulled. The hammer draws back and falls to cause the firing pin to strike the cartridge.
  
  Furthermore, the third salient property of the revolver is its “Cylinder”; in firearms terminology, the Cylinder refers to the cylindrical, rotating part of a revolver containing multiple cartridge chambers. The cylinder revolves around a central axis in the revolver to bring each individual chamber into alignment with the barrel for firing. Each time the gun is cocked, the cylinder indexes by one chamber (in six-shooters, 60°). Describing one of the behavior of the revolver (Loading the Cylinder), the main operation in this starts when the magazine is loaded into it. Cylinders typically hold six to nine cartridges. Each time the hammer is cocked back the cylinder rotates the next cartridge into position to be fired. The cylinder release latch found on the side of the revolvers frame releases the cylinder, allowing the cylinder to swing out for loading and unloading. The ejector rod can be found on most modern revolvers. It is used to aid in removing spent cartridges from the cylinder.
  
  Concluding, for the working functionality and the operation of the Revolver, “trigger”, “hammer” and “cylinder’ related its properties and behavior are one of its crucial and significant features that has to work essentially to fulfil its process and hence, single action and double action revolver can be differentiated based on these individual components and performance of these elements.

